6 Dental #Myths about the health of your teeth.


Myth 1: Candies/ Sugar is the biggest reason to cause Cavities:
Sugar or sugary products are the main and important reason or play a role in tooth decay. We all know that sugar/ candies help to the formation of cavities. It's not that simply eating chocolate cause cavity. The chocolate which contains high sugar creates a major problem to your teeth while consuming high sugary products. Bacterias also eat sugar, if any sticky or sugary product you take be aware to wash your mouth properly otherwise the bacteria attract to teeth. So after having your meal brush your mouth to reduce the plaque buildup. Brush your teeth twice a day.

Myth 2: Consuming more Acidic food can damage your teeth:
Do you know acidic food creates sensitivity and decay to your teeth? Food like orange and lemons contains acid but consuming those foods won't's destroy your teeth. So don't worry you can have those foods. But you need to drink a lot of water when you have your acidic foods, as water will wash away the acid from our water/teeth. Also, clean your teeth twice a year and have your dental checkups.

Myth 3: Don't need to Brush Baby Teeth:
It is wrong that we don't brush the baby teeth. We all know that the baby teeth have a short life span then adult teeth. But you should create the habit of brushing your baby tooth as soon as it starts coming to the kid. Brushing your teeth is a good habit. If you start brushing your teeth as soon as your baby starts building up the teeth it will be good and the baby will start getting the habit to keep the mouth and teeth clean. If a baby tooth is not brushed or cleaned the there will be a complication, dental health issues (tooth decay, cavity, gum problem, dental pain) that kid will suffer for a lifetime.

Myth 4: Charcoal Toothpaste is good for Teeth:
Charcoal is used for removing the bacteria and helps to whiten. This charcoal toothpaste is also marketed and very well known for whitening. It is also used for protection for teeth. Charcoal works as a protective agent which will keep your teeth healthy and strong. So it will be good if you want to make your teeth white and clean you can use charcoal toothpaste.

Myth 5: Chewing Gum Works Like Brushing:
Chewing gum is not a replacement for brushing your teeth. Some chewing gums can promote cleaner teeth and better breath, and some dentists even recommend the sugar-free varieties to chew on instead of candy. However, while some chewing gums serve as aids to oral health, they still don’t reach the level of being able to replace brushing your teeth.

Myth 6: Brush your teeth with soft bristle toothbrush:
Brush your teeth with a soft-bristle toothbrush. Brush your teeth daily twice a day with a soft-bristle toothbrush. As soft bristle toothbrush helps to protect your teeth. Also, it makes you comfortable to use it. It will never hurt your teeth or gums while brushing. While Hard bristle toothbrush will hurt you and your teeth which will lead to other dental problems. Even with soft bristle toothbrush you can brush or clean your teeth harder so that your mouth, teeth remains healthy.

Schedule your appointment with Greenbelt Oral & Facial Surgery. Call us at 301-982-4555 or Book online or visit our office at 7525 Greenway Center Drive, Suite 109, Greenbelt MD 20770 
5 ways how sugar affects your Dental health
